Down from the door where it began
Now far ahead the road has gone
-And I must follow if I can
-You're late.
A wizard is never late, Frodo Baggins.
Nor is he early. He arrives
precisely when he means to.
It's wonderful to see you, Gandalf!
You didn't think I'd miss
your Uncle Bilbo's birthday?
FRODO: What news of the world?
Tell me everything.
Everything? You're far too eager
and curious for a Hobbit.
Most unnatural.
What can I tell you?
Life in the wide world goes on
much as it has this past Age.
Full of its own comings and goings.
Scarcely aware of the existence
of Hobbits.
For which I am very thankful.
[CHATTERING]
FEMALE HOBBIT:
It's Gandalf!
Oh, the long-expected party.
How is the old rascal?
I hear it'll be a party
of special magnificence.
You know Bilbo.
He's got the place in an uproar.
That should please him.
-Half the Shire's invited.
-Gracious me.
He's up to something.
All right, then. Keep your secrets.
Before you came along,
Bagginses were well thought of.
Never had any adventures.
If you're referring to the dragon
incident, I was barely involved.
All I did was give your uncle
a nudge out of the door.
Well, you've been officially
labeled a disturber of the peace.
Oh, really?
Gandalf! Gandalf!
[CHILDREN SHOUTING]
FEMALE HOBBIT 1:
Fireworks, Gandalf!
FEMALE HOBBIT 2: Gandalf!
MALE HOBBIT: Fireworks, Gandalf!
Gandalf?
-I'm glad you're back.
-So am I, dear boy.
So am I.
Whoa, whoa.
BILBO:
No, thank you!
We don't want any visitors,
well-wishers or relations!
And what about very old friends?
Gandalf?
-Bilbo Baggins.
-My dear Gandalf!
Good to see you. 111 years old!
Who would believe it?